.TH man 1 "17 August 2020" "0.1" "simple_shell man page"

.SH NAME
.B simple_shell
- is a simple version of a command interpreter (shell)

.SH SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl a Ar path        -  [-a path]
.Op Ar file             -  [arg]
.Op Ar                  -  [arg ...]
arg2 ...                -  Arguments./hsh [options] (file)

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Simple_Shell
is a simple implementation of the standard commands interpreter that executes and read from the standard input. Only some standard shell commands are incorporated.

.SS Overview
.B The simple_shell
is a command that reads "lines" from either a file
or the terminal, interprets them,
and executes other commands availables.

.SS Invocation
The program simple shell is invoked using.

.PA ./hsh
We need to stay in the terminal before each command. It reads commands from standard input.

.SS Lexical Structure
reads input and lines from a file and divides them into words at whitespace.

.SS Commands
The first word is considered to be a command, following words are arguments which need not expansion.
The following commands are valid:

.IT
.B pwd
- prints the name of the current working directory

.B ls
- list the contents of the directory

.B echo
- shows a line of text specified to stdout

.B env
- display the environment variables and their values

.B setenv
-   A command which will set environmental variable

.B unsetenv
-   Unsets environmental variable

.B exit
-   Exits from the shell, it takes unsigned int as a
.B exit status

.ss Search and Execution
This simple shell has two ways to search for the commands, built-in and programs included in the directory by path, if the command does not match a defined function, the command is searched like a normal program in the file system.

.SS Path Search
When locating a command, the shell first looks to see if it has a shell function by that name.  Then it looks for a builtin command by that name.
If a builtin command is not found, one of two things happen:
.IT
command names that contain a slash are executed without searching.
.IT
The shell searches one entry at time for command.

.Sh ARGUMENTS
THe first argument always assumed to be the name of a file containing executes commnads from this file, then exit.

.Sh BUILTING COMMANDS
this section lists the built-in commands that are needed to perform some operations.
This is the list of builting commands with their descriptions:
.Bl -tag -width -indent   /* Begins a tagged list
.It Fl cd                 /* -a flag as a list item
The cd command change the simple_shell working directory

.SH COMPILATION

simple_shell still does not have an execution file or does'nt exits , it is necessary  make a compilation process from the .c, this process is recommended to do it with the GNU Compiler Collection in ubuntu 14.04 with gcc-4.8 and you must enter the following line:
.P
.RS
.B $ gcc -Wall -Werror -Wextra -pedantic *.c -o hsh
.P
.RE
after the compilation process, your compiled file is hsh and should work typing the following line followed by an ENTER:
.P
.RS
.B $ ./hsh
.P
.RE
non-interactive mode:
.P
.RS
.B $ echo "/bin/ls" | ./hsh

.Sh REFERENCES
see also -I sh(2), bash(2), zsh(2), powershell(1)

.Sh AUTHORS
Oscar Morales
Luis Carvajal